# SIEM - Splunk 
> Splunk is a platform that helps organizations prevent major issues, identify threats, restore services and accelerate transformation with the visibility and insights they need.

## Overview 
SIEM, such as an Splunk, is an important part of a security analyst's toolbox because it provides a platform for storing, analyzing, and reporting on data from different sources. The Splunk's querying language, called Search Processing Language (SPL), includes the use of pipes and wildcards. In addition, the effective search helps us efficiently identify patterns, trends, and anomalies within data. 

## Scenario 
You are a security analyst working at the e-commerce store Buttercup Games. You've been tasked with identifying whether there are any possible security issues with the mail server. To do so, you must explore any failed SSH logins for the root account.  

The following are the details of the data in a zipped file which you will upload it into Splunk: 
* `mailsv` - Buttercup Games' mail server. Examine events generated from this host.
* `www1` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.
* `www2` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.
* `www3` - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.

vendor_sales - Information about Buttercup Games' retail sales.
## Expectation
* Upload sample log data
* Search through indexed data
* Evaluate search results
* Identify different data sources
* Locate failed SSH login(s) for the root account

## Step-by-step
> SIEM tools collect and process data so that it becomes searchable events that can be queried, viewed, and analyzed.
1. Login/signup to Splunk.
2. Add Data on the Splunk bar. 
3. Upload data into Splunk.
4. Select file and upload `tutorialdata.zip`. Please visit this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nDz_DZB4ADbD4tvaDa54_l1FoT_jtVy4/view) for further information. 
   

5. Navigate to Search and Reporting tab, type on the search bar `index=main` to view repository for data and select `All time` to view all the events across all time. 
> Try to adjust the time using the time range dropdown or time modifiers. A shorter range returns results faster and uses fewer resources. In this scenario, I chose to display `all time`. 
   

6. Let's have a look at three common components: `host`, `source`, `sourcetype`.
* Host: Specifies the device or system that generated the event.

* Source: Indicates the original location of the event data within a specific device or system.

* Sourcetype: Defines the format and structure of the event data. It tells Splunk how to parse and interpret the information.


7. On the mail server, we have to explore any failed SSH logins for the root account. To do this, I wrote on the search bar: `index=main host=mailsv' to list over 9000 events that are generated by the mail server. 
   

8. Finally, let's Search for a failed login for root. On the search bar, enter `index=main host=mailsv fail* root`. This tells Splunik to expand the search term to find other terms that contain the word `fail` such as `failure`, `failed`, etc. In addition, the keyword `root` searches for any event that contains the term `root`.  
   

9. Investigation:
* There are over 100,000 events that are contained in the main index across `all time`.
* The `host` field specifies the name of a host, such as a network device or other system, from which an event originates.
* From the scenario, The `vendor_sales` host provides information about Buttercup Games' retail sales, such as the number of products sold.
* As of February 11th, 2024, there have been 346 failed SSH logins for the root account on the mail server.
